(DOCSP-13594): stitch deprecation doc - web (#665)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/web/migrate.txt

.. _web-migrating-from-stitch-to-realm:

============================
Upgrade from Stitch to Realm
============================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------
If you have an existing app built with the Stitch SDK, you should migrate your
app to use the new Realm SDK.  While much of the application logic and flow of

> information hasn't changed, there are a few changes to how the SDK connects to the

Reviewer: Nitpick: might seem obvious, but since you mention two SDKs in the prior sentence, it could be good to identify which one here:
```suggestion
information hasn't changed, there are a few changes to how the new SDK connects to the
```

{+realm+} backend.

> .. note::

Reviewer: Nitpick: Sorry for missing this initially -- I wonder if the note is required or whether this could just be normal paragraph-formatted text.

Author: I prefer it as a note personally since it doesn't directly impact the information itself on the doc, but is rather an aside to the reader.

>    The following page presents how to migrate from the MongoDB Stitch Browser

Reviewer: Nitpick: here's how I'd refer to it. If "the following page" is something you use through Realm docs, feel free to ignore.

```suggestion
   This page presents how to migrate from the MongoDB Stitch Browser
```

   SDK to the Realm Web SDK.
   
   If you are looking to use the Realm JS SDK to build

>    Node applications, check out the :ref:`Upgrade from Stitch to Realm Node

Reviewer: Nitpick: Node.js

Author: 👍

     - Replace server function calls with the new API method, ``app.currentUser.functions.<MyFunction>()`` 

   * - The interface to the MongoDB Data Access API, containing objects like :js-sdk:`MongoDatabase <Realm-MongoDBDatabase.html>`, and :js-sdk:`MongoCollection <Realm.MongoDBCollection.html>`, has changed. Through Stitch, passing the `RemoteMongoClient.Factory <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/modules/remotemongoclient.html#factory>`__ and the string "mongodb-atlas" to `StitchAppClient.getServiceClient() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html#getserviceclient>`__ creates a remote Mongodb client. The Realm JS SDK creates a remote MongoDB client through the :js-sdk:`Realm.User.mongoClient <Realm.User.html#mongoClient>` method on the user object.
     - Replace all ``mongoClient`` instantiations with ``Realm.User.mongoClient``.
   
   * - The  {+service-short+} SDKs do not provide an interface for calling Services (like the :doc:`Twilio <services/twilio>` and :doc:`AWS <services/aws>` services).

>      -  Convert uses of Third Party Services in your Stitch Application to Realm functions in your Realm application using the AWS and/or Twilio npm packages. For more information, see :doc:`Upload External Dependencies </functions/upload-external-dependencies>`.

Reviewer: Just thought the sentence was a little indirect. Could even omit the parenthetical containing AWS and Twilio since it's mentioned in the "What's Changed" column.

```suggestion
     -  Convert references to Third Party Services (AWS or Twilio) in your Stitch Application to Realm functions in your Realm application using the corresponding npm packages. For more information, see :doc:`Upload External Dependencies </functions/upload-external-dependencies>`.
```

.. _web-migrating-from-stitch-to-realm:

============================
Upgrade from Stitch to Realm
============================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------
If you have an existing app built with the Stitch SDK, you should migrate your
app to use the new Realm SDK.  While much of the application logic and flow of

> information hasn't changed, there are a few changes to how it connects to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
information hasn't changed, there are a few changes to how the SDK connects to the
```

> {+realm+} backend.

Author: We don't have an exact timeline for Stitch apps becoming not compatible. This paragraph is taken from the adjacent pages of the other SDK. Once we have a solid timeline we can add a mention to the timeline.

.. note::

   The following page presents how to migrate from the MongoDB Stitch Browser

>    SDK to the Realm Web SDK. If you are looking to use the Realm JS SDK to build

Reviewer: Suggestion: add a line break after the first sentence. Seems like it would be easier to read at a glance. E.g.
"This page shows how to migrate from the MongoDB Stitch Browser SDK to the Realm Web SDK.

If you are looking for ... see this link instead.
"

Author: 👍

   Node apps, check out the :ref:`Upgrade from Stitch to Realm Node

>    <node-migrating-from-stitch-to-realm>` doc. If you are looking to develop

Reviewer 2: +1 in general we use "page" or omit the noun entirely, e.g. "check out Upgrade from Stitch to Realm (Node)"

>    <node-migrating-from-stitch-to-realm>` doc. If you are looking to develop

Author: 👍  fixed to "page"

   React Native apps, consider our :ref:`Upgrade from Stitch to Realm for React
   Native <react-native-migrating-from-stitch-to-realm>` doc. 

> Deprecated Features

Author: You can still use these services if you use the Stitch SDK. 

I found this [doc](https://docs.moodle.org/dev/Deprecation) describing deprecation as: "Deprecation, in its programming sense, is the process of taking older code and marking it as no longer being useful within the codebase, usually because it has been superseded by newer code. The deprecated code is not immediately removed from the codebase because doing so may cause regression errors." 

Do you still recommend replacing this w/ Incompatible features? Especially considering users can still use these services with the Stitch SDK.

> Deprecated Features

Reviewer: I think "Incompatible Features" makes sense.

My initial suggestion was based on my misconception that you were only referring to the Stitch SDK and that the support had been removed.

Given the info that you're talking about Stitch SDK and Realm SDK, "deprecated" does not fit because they are two different SDKs and codebases. It sounds like there are plans to remove the Stitch SDK but not to change the Stitch SDK to remove the lifecycle methods.

I think this may be a candidate for the table that lists the changes and what the solutions are rather than placed in a separate section.

> Deprecated Features

Author: 👍  That's a really good idea and is far more accurate. I've removed the "deprecated features" subsection and moved this into a row of the "changes table"

-------------------

> - The  {+service-short+} SDKs do not provide hooks for calling Services (like the 

Reviewer 2: nit: IMO these aren't really hooks. I associate that term with lifecycle/plugin methods, e.g. `componentDidMount` in React or `onPageCreate` in Gatsby.

In general we've referred to service methods as **actions** that you access as methods on a **service client**

> - The  {+service-short+} SDKs do not provide hooks for calling Services (like the 

Author: Decided to go with the word "interfaces" here. Took everything from chris's suggestion, except the first sentence (the interface/hook into services still works w/ stitch sdk, and never worked w/ the realm sdk). 

The full paragraph reads: 

"The Realm SDKs do not provide an interface for calling Services
(like the Twilio and AWS services). If you were using these in your Stitch app, convert them to Realm functions in your Realm application using the AWS and/or Twilio npm packages. For more information, see Upload External Dependencies."

  :doc:`Twilio <services/twilio>` and :doc:`AWS <services/aws>` services). We 
  recommend using the AWS and/or Twilio ``npm`` packages within {+realm+} 
  functions to connect to these services moving forward. For more information, 
  see :doc:`Upload External Dependencies </functions/upload-external-dependencies>`.

Changes
-------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 50 50

   * - What's Changed?
     - Solution
   
   * - The backend app connections previously accessed via `StitchAppClient <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html>`__ are now available through :js-sdk:`Realm.App <Realm.App.html>`. Use the ``Realm.App`` class to access authentication functionality such as logging in and getting the current user. The ``Realm.App`` is not an interface to access {+backend+} functions.

>      - Migrate all occurrences of ``StitchAppClient`` to ``Realm.App``.

Author: It was something you can do with the StitchAppClient. I've removed that sentence ("The Realm.App is not an interface to access MongoDB Realm functions" entirely. There is another row (second to last one) that discusses this in length.

>      - Migrate all occurrences of ``StitchAppClient`` to ``Realm.App``.

Reviewer: Ok, I just want to make sure -- are there corresponding functions in Realm.App for all functions called on StitchAppClient? Otherwise, would it make sense to mention that they should check that the function exists or the equivalent one here?

>      - Migrate all occurrences of ``StitchAppClient`` to ``Realm.App``.

Author: They exist and are accessible on the logged-in user object.
 ```So user.functions.<MyMongoDBRealmFunction>(param1,param2)```

   * - `StitchUser <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchuser.html>`__ was previously the interface to access application users, but now it is :js-sdk:`Realm.User <Realm.User.html>`.
     - Migrate all occurrences of ``StitchUser`` to ``Realm.User``.

   * - The login API has changed from `stitchAppClient.auth.loginWithCredential() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchauth.html#loginwithcredential>`__ to :js-sdk:`Realm.App.logIn() <Realm.App.html#logIn>`
     - Rewrite all authentication logic to use the :ref:`new login API <web-authenticate>`.

   * - The API to log users out has changed from `stitchAppClient.auth.logout() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchauth.html#logout>`__ to :js-sdk:`Realm.User.logOut() <Realm.User.html#logOut>`.
     - Rewrite the application logic to log out using the ``Realm.User`` object's ``logOut()`` method.

>    * - The Stitch SDK required developers to import authentication credentials from the "mongodb-stitch-server-sdk". The Realm SDK has a class, :js-sdk:`Realm.Credentials <Realm.Credentials.html>`, that creates credentials for each authentication provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * - The Stitch SDK required developers to import authentication credentials from the ``mongodb-stitch-browser-sdk``. The Realm SDK has a class, :js-sdk:`Realm.Credentials <Realm.Credentials.html>`, that creates credentials for each authentication provider.
```

>      - Replace imports of authentication credentials with method calls for each respective authentication provider through the ``Realm.Credentials`` class.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion. I've added a link to StitchCredentials which is implemented by all the auth credential classes. There you can see specific examples for each respective type of credential.

>    * - Instead of calling {+backend+} functions using the app client directly via the method `stitchAppClient.callFunction() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html#callfunction>`__, you must call server {+backend+} functions using the :js-sdk:`callFunction() <Realm.User.html#callFunction>` method of a logged-in ``Realm.User``. 

Reviewer 2: You shouldn't really need `callFunction()` for most use cases. It's more ergonomic to use the Proxy form, i.e.

`await app.currentUser.callFunction("myFunction", [1,2,3])`
vs
`await app.currentUser.functions.myFunction(1,2,3)`

>    * - Instead of calling {+backend+} functions using the app client directly via the method `stitchAppClient.callFunction() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html#callfunction>`__, you must call server {+backend+} functions using the :js-sdk:`callFunction() <Realm.User.html#callFunction>` method of a logged-in ``Realm.User``. 

Reviewer 2: "server MongoDB Realm functions" is weird phrasing, let's just call them "Realm functions" or "functions"

>    * - Instead of calling {+backend+} functions using the app client directly via the method `stitchAppClient.callFunction() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html#callfunction>`__, you must call server {+backend+} functions using the :js-sdk:`callFunction() <Realm.User.html#callFunction>` method of a logged-in ``Realm.User``. 

Author: Good ideas. I've updated the row accordingly to both of your suggestions.

     - Call {+backend+} functions using ``Realm.User.callFunction()`` instead of an app client.

>   * - The interface to the MongoDB Data Access API, containing objects like :js-sdk:`MongoDatabase <Realm-MongoDBDatabase.html>`, and :js-sdk:`MongoCollection <Realm.MongoDBCollection>`, has changed. Through Stitch, passing the `RemoteMongoClient.Factory <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/modules/remotemongoclient.html#factory>`__ and the string "mongodb-atlas" to `StitchAppClient.getServiceClient() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html#getserviceclient>`__ would create a remote Mongodb client. The Realm JS SDK creates a remote MongoDB client through the :js-sdk:`Realm.User.mongoClient <Realm.User.html#mongoClient>` method on the user object.

Author: I think there was a spacing issue originally. I pushed a change w/ the fixed spacing. Can you try refreshing your page and seeing if it renders properly now?

>   * - The interface to the MongoDB Data Access API, containing objects like :js-sdk:`MongoDatabase <Realm-MongoDBDatabase.html>`, and :js-sdk:`MongoCollection <Realm.MongoDBCollection>`, has changed. Through Stitch, passing the `RemoteMongoClient.Factory <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/modules/remotemongoclient.html#factory>`__ and the string "mongodb-atlas" to `StitchAppClient.getServiceClient() <http://stitch-sdks.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/stitch-sdks/js/4/interfaces/stitchappclient.html#getserviceclient>`__ would create a remote Mongodb client. The Realm JS SDK creates a remote MongoDB client through the :js-sdk:`Realm.User.mongoClient <Realm.User.html#mongoClient>` method on the user object.

Author: Fixed in latest commit

>     - Replace all ``mongoClient`` instatiations with ``Realm.User.mongoClient``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Replace all ``mongoClient`` instantiations with ``Realm.User.mongoClient``.
```
